Here. Hello
everyone. Welcome to
the second lesson of motion tricks today. We will
learn how to create 3D shapes in After Effects
and how to stilize them to match our
desired style the most important principle that we
will follow when creating a design in this course is solid drawing.
It is an animation technique used to create
delusion of three-dimensional objects.
In classical animation correct perspective drawing was
used to achieve a realistic 3D look as well
as the light and Shadow interaction with objects as you will
see modern softwares fulfill some of these tasks.
After Effects provides a 3D space so
we can transform any layer into a 3D object.
The key difference between 3D and 2D layers is
that in some basic parameters a new z-axis
is added which represents the Third depth
value. This is really useful. But at
the same time creating 3D objects in After Effects is a complex
topic with many nuances and limitations first.
Let's make sure that our three settings are
all the same since the 2022 version
of After Effects. The interface has changed
slightly, but there have been no fundamental differences if
you create any layer and turn on
the 3D mode for it, you will see several 3D and
camera settings in the lower right corner of the
viewport window. There are two engines available for rendering
3D classic 3D is fully processed
within After Effects and is the fastest
option.
The second one Cinema 4D uses surrendering
engine from the cinema for this software.
When you install After Effects, this is also automatically installed
with the software.
Using it we can get a more realistic design and some
additional features, but it's significantly affects the
performance and some limitations May emerge.
Another place where we can switch between these modes and read some
additional information is the composition settings.
You can open it from the menu by right clicking
on the composition name.
Or from the menu composition composition settings.
Here we find the 3D renderer tab for Cinema
4D renderer. You will see a list of all the
enabled features as well as those that are
disabled.
However, in our course we will always use the
classic 3D as you can see in Cinema 4D we
lose the ability to work with the blending modes
track mods and layer styles.
Which are key styling tools for us?
Although there are some ways to bypass this limitations. We
won't see any differences between these two
modes. And since we will achieve our desired visual
style using various effects. We will choose the most
performant mode classic 3D make sure you have
it selected here. Otherwise, you may encounter errors
along the way now, let's start by creating a sphere.
It's interesting. That although we have a 3D space
and can create 3D planes of any shape.
It's technically very difficult to create a realistic smooth
sphere. This is because after effects doesn't
feature any built-in 3D shape presets like
this for normal shaped layers, we could
create 100 rectangular layer and position
them in a way that it will shape a sphere
but this is of course really convenient and will
be very required additional scripts therefore to
create a sphere. We'll use other tricks.
Here we have already created a composition with the
same parameters as in the previous lesson. One of the fastest way
to create a sphere is to use the special CC sphere
effect.
For this we need to create a large layer.
The size of entire composition we can
also drag and drop one of our gradients here.
For example, we can use one that we
have created in the previous lesson.
After that, and the CC sphere effect, you will
see a very similar result to what we achieved in
the previous lesson back. Then we were trying
to simulate it manually by adjusting all the parameters, but now
it's a real 3D shape with its own
light source.
The gradient image is stretched over the entire surface
of the sphere with Light Shadows and reflection added.
Let's take a closer. Look at the parameters. It's important
to understand the physics of light and materials
of why light and Shadow are positioned in
such way that gives depth to the object. This
will help you understand how to achieve the desired result
and improve it in the beginning. You'll find the basic
parameters where we can control the rotation of the sphere
radius and position in the composition.
Visually the light source will remain in place only during
rotation.
This is a kind of infinity light like the sun for instance.
The light always falls on the object at
the same angle Distributing light and Shadow regardless the
size of the object. Let's animate a full rotation
around the y axis approximately of
one second during the course. We will stick to
the principles of Animation as much as possible to ensure that the
animation is more realistic and expressive. So let's
start using them here already. Even if it's such
a simple animation first, we create a basic linear
movement, then we can add the preparation for the movement
to do this at around frame five or
six slightly rotate the sphere in
the opposite direction.
Like this then for smoothness. We will change
the first two keys to easy.
Let's look at the speed graph in this course, we will use both graphs
and we will also examine their difference in the
next lesson, but for now I will just use the
speed graph.
As you can see we added some smoothness to the
Keys.
Let's make the stop less approved and follow the principle of
follow through.
The sphere will continue rotating even after
it stops.
Let's add more movement using expressions.
Select the property and emotion to sprout click this elastic
animation button.
An expression will be added to the property and the effect with
its settings will be added to the effects control panel.
That's enough for now.
This way we see how the light
works with all the colorful sides of the sphere
and we will need to manually adjust this parameter again. Let's
go back to the CC sphere effect. Another important parameter
for us is render. It controls what
is displayed in the sphere the outside the inside
or both at the same time? We will
see the difference when we create a semi sphere. You can control
the light source in the Light Group here. You can
see a very clearly the parameters for the intensity of
the light. It's color and angle light Direction
controls the angle relative to the composition
plane while light hate controls
the angle relative to the viewer, for example,
a 100 value position the light source
exactly in front of us while minus 100
position it on the opposite side behind the sphere.
Let's place this side we did in the first lesson so
that the source is on the top right corner.
with a slight tilt
Now we need to adjust the material and how
the light reflects of the object.
This effect uses a very simplified system
of materials and the parameters work together to affect
how the material looks I can say. The ambient
is the original color of the layer.
without any additional light or shadow
the fuse refers to the strength of Shadow and light on
the object depending on the light source specular is
simply the highlights of the light source.
For example to preserve the original color ambient should
be set to 100 and diffuse and
specular to zero.
Since the visual style, we are creating relies on
color as the most important thing we can start with
this parameters. After that. We can increase the light and
Shadow and proportionally decrease ambient in time.
You will learn how to find the right balance between all
these parameters. The next parameter reflective is
quite interesting. It adds the reflection of the environment to
the surface of the object and any other
layer can be used as the environment in this parameter.
like another gradient for example
The result will be similar to overlaying multiple gradients
with different blending modes.
But the best option is to have a map with a seamless texture.
So that there are no unnecessary lines on the surface the
roughness and metal parameters control the
smoothness of the surface. It can look more metallic
or have a more plastic feel and so on they depend
on other parameters in this group and affect
how glare simplert and how other colors
on the environment are reflected.
Basically, this is a more realistic lighting model
similar to what we tried to manually recreate in the
previous lesson.
And one of the main advantage of working in After
Effects is that we can combine all
techniques.
If you don't like the glare you can turn it off.
Draw it as a separate layer and blur it.
Overlaying two layers will work in the usual way.
We can also add style effects. For example
inner Shadow just like we did in the first
lesson and an additional shadow that is a little
easier to control.
Still this layer will remain a regular layer.
Sometimes layer.
Sometimes layer Styles and effects can conflict with each other, but
every case should be considered individually.
Next let's smooth out this border.
One of the best ways to do this is to create a seamless texture,
but we can make it easier and try to blur this
gradient with a fast box Fuller effect.
This will affect the edges of the sphere. So we need to use a
mask.
The same layer can become the mask.
Let's duplicate it remove all the unnecessary elements.
I use the trackmat. We will adjust a
bit the size of the layers to make everything fit together.
The main drawback of creating a sphere like
this is that it is not really a 3D
layer but a generated object using an effect
so we cannot pass other object through it or for
example link anything to its edges
After Effects developers are beginning to address this issue.
And in your version, there is the possibility to
import 3D objects without additional plugins.
But at the time of recording this lesson, this features was
only available in the after effects better version.
This works with identify with the obj extension placing
it in. The composition will make it
a real 3D object. It is used with the new Mercury
renderer and it can be linked to rotated and
scaled like a regular layer.
And the light is reflected from Individual layer sources,
but as with the cinema for the
renderer layer Styles masks and blending modes
cannot be used yet.
This is a cool new feature, but it is unlikely to change anything
for our style effects. Give us more
flexibility and possibilities. For example, a sphere
can easily be turned into a semi sphere using the
CC sphere effect.
The shape of a semi-sphere depends
on the layer map on which the effect is applied. Let's
copy the layer without blur to a new composition.
To preserve the original gradient duplicate the composition with
gradients in the project panel.
You can quickly find the composition using reveal reveal
layer Source in Project.
And replace the gradient with a new one by holding
the ALT key pressed.
For convenience open the gradient composition in
a separate window to do this right click
on an empty space in the layer panel.
choose new
viewer
the current composition will be fixed to the window
on the right which is controlled by this lock to the
left of the composition name.
If you open the composition with the gradient, it will expand in another
window. Now when the layer with the gradient
is moved beyond the composition the sphere starts to
change its shape the area of the sphere that corresponds
to our composition become transparent.
In my case the crop is inverted because the sphere is
rotated 180 degrees.
I can easily fix this make sure that the rotation X
is at 0.
Yes, that's better. If you don't see a transparent area
you can switch with this button in the viewport window.
If we start rotating the sphere you will see that it really
becomes a semi sphere and we see what is inside.
Instead of blurring the gradient border. Let's cut
the sphere along this line.
To do this in our case. The layer should be moved horizontally
and occupy just half of the composition in the
position property simply set 0 in the first parameter.
Rotate the layer on the z-axis by
minus 90 degrees.
And remove the animation from the y-axis.
Remove the keys by clicking on the stopwatch
button, then remove the expression by
clicking on it again with the ALT key pressed.
And remove this effect as we don't need it.
Let's finish with its appearance. We can go back
to the render property in the CC sphere effect. Now if
we switch the final render, we can actually see the
difference and see the inner part outer part or
both together. It's impossible to repaint something
separately because it's just one layer and
this is the main disadvantage of using this effect to
create shapes.
But we can simply duplicate the layer and switch what
will be displayed in each of them?
This will also help to place objects inside
the sphere just by placing it in between the
two layers. Let's repaint the inner part of the sphere.
It can be a gradient or just one color.
Let's add the fill effect.
Change the color to something dark in contrast
with the lighter outside. Okay, we can
also add additional depth to the outer part
using layer Styles. Let's add additional
light within our shadow.
Will make it white.
Change the blending mode to Overlay then increase
the distance and blur it.
In general, we just need to find the right angle and balance the
parameters. We'll blur it enough. So that this distinct
boundary disappears. We can also
reduce the transparency property to we can the effect the overlay
blending mode will preserve good saturated Shades
if the color is dark enough, there are
pixel may appear around the semi sphere. You can fix
this by reducing the sphere by a couple of pixels.
The last thing we need to fix is the inconvenience of
controlling the effect on two layers. It's very
impractical to expand the sphere into layers every time
and duplicating Keys is not the best idea to solve
this. We will use linking expressions.
Right. Now I only need rotation on the x-axis. Let's
link this property on the two
layers.
Expand the effects as we need access to
the linking tool, which is located to the right this
button here with a spiral icon in the
parent and Link column. It is important which layer
will be the main one. So let's use the one on
top click the button on the rotation property and
then drag it to the same parameter from which we need
to get the value.
Like this, it looks great.
Now everything works as one layer.
It's always a good idea to link properties that you will
definitely use. But if you need to fully link the
entire effect, it's best to use the function from
the menu edit copy it with property links.
There are two of them. The first one is used
to link properties between different compositions.
And the second one copy with relative property links,
we'll link properties only within one composition
to do this select the property choose the
desired copy mode and simply paste it onto
another layer.
You'll see that all the property values are
now in red which means that there is an
expression indicating the path to another property and remember that
it's better to link properties within a layer if they
are shapes and in effects and styles if
it's any layer most of the properties in the
transform group will be automatically linked if we
just link the entire layer with another one it will move
rotate and scale only the opacity property
won't work, but it can be linked with the expression if
you need it.
And now let's add the very simple jump animation
in the first layer set the
keys on the position and rotation on the x-axis in
the CC sphere effect. Let's start with
a simple outline and make it more Dynamic after time
frames. We will move the layer up.
After another 10 frames, we will bring it back down
by simply copying the keyframe.
Rotate it 360 degrees in
direction towards us in the last
keyframe set it to minus one. Let's prepare
for the movement.
After around three frames rotate the sphere in the opposite
direction.
And move the layer up a bit.
Remember that you are working at 15 frames per
second. If you work at 25 or 30 frames, the
distance between keyframes will be slightly larger,
but visually the proportion between frames should remain
the same.
And finally We'll add a follow through.
About three frames before the end. I can
duplicate the keyframes and move the layer a bit in the position property
as for rotation. I want to have a
longer animation. So let's add an elastic animation just like at the
beginning we can simply delete the last keyframe.
Now let's work on using.
Let's add some Easy's on the first fourth
keyframes. The quickest way to do. This is by pressing
F9 at the beginning. We need a smoother
animation, but the full should be more quick but
the fall should be quicker returning to
the starting position. Can then be smooth again?
For the animation to be realistic. We need the semisphere triangle
little in the uppermost position until gravity
comes in.
And bring it back down. We could just start some easies
on this. Keyframe, but that won't be
enough.
Let's open the speed graph to make it hang in a
place for longer. We need to move the handles further to
the sides.
Make the animation sharper at the beginning by increasing this
graph and smoother in the middle.
It's easier to do this in motion tools with days
in control widget.
Which is the third slider it will simultaneously control
the incoming and outgoing handles.
Let's slow down the rotation a bit on the
peak and let's add the keyframe in the middle.
We'll turn the semi sphere so that we can see a little
bit of the inside.
Just make sure you haven't accidentally selected all the keyframes.
Let's try to add the same curves to the keyframes by
clicking on the third slider button.
It looks good. But while a complete
stop on the position looks more realistic, the same
doesn't apply for rotation. So we just need it
to slow down.
For this we need to slightly lower the keyframes in the
speed graph.
Or in case the animation was in the opposite direction raise
it.
You will notice that an issue appears as
both handles moves independently to avoid
this. We need to change the keyframe type
right click on the keyframe and
select keyframe velocity.
Select the continuous checkbox, it will
link the position of the two handles.
Now it will be easier for us to increase the speed a little
at this moment.
Still the beginning seems too fast. I'll move
both the second keyframes by one frame.
This way will make the start smoother and the jump
sharper. Let's move the other keyframe one frame as
well and make sure there is an elastic animation on
the rotation property.
To see the expression animation on the graph. We need to expand the
expression interface and click on the graph icon.
As you can see you can easily control this type
of object with effects. The most important thing is
to link all of the repeating parameters. However,
if you need to move the entire layer, it's
more convenient to create a new object.
Play CD there in the center of the semi sphere or at
the base. I'll link the top layer to it. That's it.
Let's see now another way of creating a
semi sphere.
In order not to waste too much time on these two shapes. You'll
find that in composition 3 semisphere
2. I have already added anything. This is
a very simple and effective way to create a save the
3D Shape. We use two simple layers one
is a half circle and the second one is
an ellipse.
The rotation of the semisphere is achieved by changing the
vertical size or scale of the
layer. It is suitable for achieving quick results, but
it has some limitations firstly we cannot make a
full rotation around the axis as easily as
we did with the CC sphere effect. We can only control
and animate it from one angle to see the same
sphere from the other side. We need to either duplicate the
ellipse and repaint it in the same color as the outside.
But you live additional problem.
Caused by transparent pixels or
if it's a shape layer create another ellipse inside
the half circle, but all of these adds complexity
to the animation as we need to additionally hide
and reveal different parts to see what we need.
The second limitation is that we depend on the type
of layer as I mentioned in the first lesson. This means
that the color coordinates in the effect will remain
static and want to move with the layer.
The first way to fix this is to add an expression
to each position property. This will
be to comp value.
This is a special expression that converts effects coordinates into
layer coordinates in the composition. In other
words. This coordinates will now move with the layer. We
just need to return the color position to its
original place.
The expression can be copied from the copy
expression on the menu and paste it into all
other properties.
After adjusting the positions the colors will always
move with the layer.
Another approach is to use a precomposed shape
layer or solid layer or even illustration
files from illustrator this like solid
or precomposed shape layers move effects along
with them.
But be careful since this file should have high enough
resolution because when you start to deform them or simply
increase their scale, they will start to pixelate this
problem can be solved by turning on the continuous
right mode with this button.
And then the file becomes a vector layer inside after
effects.
Unfortunately, this will lead to the effects not moving
with the layer again. Yes. I know it's quite confusing, but
that's how After Effects works.
Throughout the course, we will explore different situations and find
the best Solutions so that everything will
fall into place here. Our semisphere
is animated simply in one place. Therefore we
will have enough of this shape layers.
Vector files will work with minimal deformations
and no noticeable pixels.
Unfortunately, it's not possible to create a cube with an
effect like CC sphere.
And making up pseudo Cube using 2D layers is
difficult. Therefore. We will create it manually using 3D
layers. The cube has only six sides
so it won't take too much time.
For the sides of the cube, we can use solid layers
instead of shape layers. This will make
it easier to add effects onto the sides of
the cube to make it more convenient. Let's place all of
the sides in a precomp. Let's create a
new composition. That's 500 by 500 pixels
and name it Cube inside it. Let's
create a solid layer with default settings.
Let's enable the 3D mode and duplicate it five times. Let's
place a rotate all sides of the cube in
the respective positions.
Let's switch to the camera view so we can
see it from the side.
In the viewport window, we open the menu here and
change the active camera to custom View.
If your angle is different go to the view menu and
select reset custom View.
In alternative you can use the orbit around
to to rotate around the object.
There were other new Option recently to the stool
that allow you to rotate not only around the object but also
around the center of the scene.
This is really helpful next. We select
all the layers and open their position by pressing
p
and the rotation Properties by pressing r
To unfold both properties you need to press the r key
holding the shift key as well.
We can even change the workspace to Vertical to get
a better view of all the layers.
These actions may seem boring and monotonous. But
if you have any experience with 3D, you know,
this will be useful all sides should be
at the same distance from each other.
Each side is 500 pixels and there are already in
the center of the composition. So we need to move then
by half of the length.
Which is 250 pixels. Let's move
the first layer down by 250 pixels.
We can simply click on the property value and
write plus 250.
After Effects, we'll do all the mathematical calculations automatically.
Let's move the
second layer up and subtract 250 pixels.
Let's repeat the same with the rest of the sides.
Afterwards, we just need to rotate all
of the sides accordingly to where they
are. Here. It is. It's already looking as it
should.
However, all of the sites look the same.
Let's change the color to our brighter one
or if you prefer you can always choose from the palette.
In order to see the volume of the cube. Let's repaint two sides
of the cube in a darker color.
We can take the same base color and make it darker.
without losing any saturation
Let's copy it to another side.
Now we can go back to the main composition and place
the composition with the cube in it.
To control a layer like a 3D cube. We need to do
two things first enable 3D mode.
And then enable collapse transformation. This mode
turns the composition to a group and all layers
are now visible in this composition. They can
even be selected but nothing else can be done with them.
Let's copy the animation on rotation from the
first sphere with the keyframes and the elastic animation
effect.
Instead of full rotation we can make it a hard
rotation.
This way we can have a better look at the size of the cube.
Everything looks good. So now let's work on styling the
cube.
The first thing I led is the inner Shadow, I'll
use it to brighten the edges of the cube will
make it white with an overlay blending mode.
We can also increase the distance and blur the Border.
Let's turn it so that the light source is in the upper right
corner.
We can increase the blur even more.
So that there's a bit of light on the opposite sides. This
not only adds a slight plastic effect.
But also more depth this even reminds us of
the subsurface scattering that exist on skin
and some translucent materials.
As in the previous lesson, we'll add even more depth by
adding another object inside.
Let's duplicate the layer.
Make both layer slightly transparent this time
increase the size of the first layer and
make the second layer a bit smaller that the
one on top.
We should be able to see both layers through we'll blur
the bottom layer adding the fastbox puller
effect.
And we'll blur just enough so that we can still see
a little bit of the internal boundaries of the cube for color
saturation change the blending mode of the top
layer to multiply.
And to make the dark side a bit lighter we can add the
fill effect to this layer and fill it with the
same color.
Just copy this effect from the layer inside.
But keep it still a little bit darker we can we can
the entire effect.
Expand the layer and inside the Field Effect reduce the
opacity.
It looks great. We're done with the cube.
Now, let's see how to turn any stroke into a
3D object.
We can create a stroke into different ways.
By using the pen tool we can create any arbitrary
shape.
It can be opened or closed.
Or we can create a basic shape and then convert it
to a better path.
Turn off the field and turn on the stroke.
If we turn this layers into a 3D layers and
try to rotate them, you will notice that the stroke remains
flat.
There are three popular tricks to make the stroke
volumetric.
The first is to add stroke in the layer styles.
To do this. The regular stroke will have to
be reduced to a minimum then we can rotate the
layer and it will look 3D from all sides
except from this angle where it completely disappears apparently
due to some peculiarities of
processing it. Also these stroke is
more difficult to stylize with other layer Styles in
terms of practicality. This tricks currently sits in
the last place for the second method. We want to
use layer Styles and instead use effects. Let's remove
the Styles and add a mask to the
layer for now. It can just be two points
anywhere after we link the past property
of the Mask to The Path property inside
the shape layer.
Now we are the stroke effect.
It adds a stroke to any selected mask on
the layer or all at once.
You can change the color inside and it also has a built-in
trim path feature.
The problem is that this is quite resource intense because
it creates a large amount of circles throughout the
path.
To make the line look good. You need to minimize the spacing
property as much as possible and for
clarity. You need to increase the brush hardness.
You can add the other layer effects and styles to
the stroke.
All our style and techniques work here as well as the 3D
rotation.
This technique ranks second as it is a bit more flexible. The
third technique is the most interesting to me,
but it requires using Scripts.
But you already have them.
Basically, the shape path is consisted by
any point and we can have access
to each of them as this points can be tied to another layer
and we can then move the layer in 3D space
to do this in your windows menu
go to the list of scripts and there you'll
find a preinstalled create news from path.
To work with it. You need to select a path in in
the layer.
The first function creates new layers where the points
are located. So the points are tied to them by moving
the new objects. We can control each point independently.
The second function on the contrary links the null
layers to the position of points.
For now, we'll only need the first function. The technique
here is to enable the 3D mode.
In this node.
while at the same time leaving the shape layer
into the
it's better to turn off 3D to avoid bugs.
Rotating such layers in 3D is useless. So we need
to create a new common null object place it
approximately in the center of the shape make it make
it 3D as well and Link the
other new layers to it.
By rotating it. We rotate the entire object.
It's also better to use stroke with rounded Corners
using round cap and round join.
This way we can rotate it at any angle even in
the angles that the first two method school
and handle.
But the coolest thing is that we can also move other new layers
in 3D and create a complex volumetric
shape.
Effects in layer Styles will also work on this layers.
The main limitation of this and of the other methods is that
it's still not entirely real 3D.
Although all the points are in different position coordinates.
Our entire object is made out
of a 2d shape layer. This means we cannot
Place another object inside it even if
we do duplicate the structure no matter how much we rotate it.
The layer above will always be higher than the
other. Therefore. We will only be able to use
them in limited situations that are required interaction with
other layers. There are also two other constraints
you may encounter which are related to the
script itself and it's Expressions the linking worked
with a path drone with the pen tool because the
position of all the inner groups was set to
zero.
You can see these as the Anchor Point and position
inside the shape are both at zero.
Now, let's look at the rectangle layers when
we create this type of shapes and then
convert them to bassiere path.
The position inside the shape is not zero.
This means that when you try to link the position to zero and they
will be in a different place.
To fix this you need to manually reset the
values after which everything will look normally to
make things easier for you. This problems have been
solved in motion tools Pro.
This one also add new subjects
and links points to them.
And if you try to link a layer and encounter the same problem holding
down the shift key will automatically reset the
position of the layer and the link in will work correctly.
This resetting is not always reliable if there
are keys and expressions on the properties. So by
default the link is done without resetting.
now on to the second issue
when creating a shape Circle we have not only
points but also handles if we try to link the
points to zeros using the classic tool the shape will only appear
three dimensional until we start rotating it.
The expressions of this tool do not take into account
the position of the handles.
To solve this problem. You can find an advanced
version of the script on the web. But motion tools can
also handle this if there are handles on the path.
They will be added as new layers which will
be which will be linked to the main rule points.
And everything will rotate correctly with this
techniques. You can create complex structures and have an
interesting visual style over the next few lessons. We
will try some more practical examples of
these shapes and animations for them. Now. Let's
move forward and discuss another shape.
There are probably more ways to create cylinders that any other
primitive shapes this is because there is
no single best method and each one has its
own advantages and disadvantages. We won't
be using cylinders in this course, but the time you
useful for you to know some techniques in the cylinder composition.
You will see four cylinders. They all
look the same overall but each one was created differently.
The first thing there is Created from 3D
layers. The layers are arranged on the
sides just like we did with the cube, but the
fact that it looks solid is deceptive.
There is a partition in the middle that creates volume
only from one angle the top and bottom
are made of two layers so that they can have
different colors under different angles. This
means they can only be slightly offsetting position
from one another but in our version we
use special expression that will help hide the
layer that's not facing us. So it automatically hides and
displays them without Distortion. We also
use a camera in the composition for good perspective without
it. You will notice problems on
the sides that are otherwise very difficult to hide.
When you create such a camera from scratch, you
need to specify the maximum lens size or even
increase the focal length.
The camera will automatically position itself so that
our object Remains the Same Size this works
to rotate the cylinder around the x-axis only.
To rotate it around the y axis I needed to
add another expression so that the middle
layer will always stay in place and not rotate with
the other layers.
In this type of cylinder is also easy to adjust
the height by simply animating the scale along the y axis
in the new object.
Since the top and bottom are just ordinary circles.
We can change their color and gradient.
If for instance we use solid layers instead
we can even add effects.
But it will be more difficult to repaint the
middle and lower parts because they will be different layers.
We could further style as our cylinder with
additional adjustment layers effects and blending modes.
But here is another way.
If you make a precomp of the entire cylinder, then you
can add styles to the layer.
and you can change the tone and I just
let's consider the second option. This option
is particularly difficult and we have prepared this
specifically for this course it consists of a
single shape layer created by using keyframes
and expressions the controls for the cylinder
are located in the effects. They allow
you to quickly adjust the width 8th.
And one axis of rotation the other axis
is available within the layer itself.
You can also add effects and layer size to this
layer. However, if you need to add different effects
to different parts, you need to follow the same
steps as we did with the same sphere duplicate
the layer keep only the necessary then link
the duplicated parameters and proceed
to style each individual part.
Since these are ordinary shapes and not 3D
layers. We don't need any additional cameras. Now. Let's
have a look at the third option here. You
will see only one shape layer and one camera.
It is fully 3D and you can rotate the object
without any limitation on all axis. But in
order to do this, I switched the rendering engine to
Cinema 4D now in shape layers, we have
additional groups of geometry and material settings.
In them you can easily control the hate of the
object, but unfortunately, that's about all you
can easily do with this renderer layer blending
modes and layer Styles don't work. There are
also lots of difficulties with gradients in the
new shape options. We can only add one color and other material
settings for each side of
the cylinder.
And an important ones is that to add this shape options
the shape must be in a group. Otherwise, you will
get an error material settings will be familiar from
the CC sphere effect.
You can try to play with the styling options
by analogy if you add a new layer source to the composition.
Also our styling works if you
make a pre comp.
So just in case make sure that classic 3D
works in the new composition.
Then you can add regular effects
and styles to this layer.
In contrast to the first option the camera in this composition is
also optional and you will see any issues
of on the borders because it is real 3D.
One more advantage to this method is that you can complicate
the shapes of the cylinder with the help of other shapes, but
we won't be using this method in the course as
it significantly reduces the performance
and complicates working with the project.
Let's consider the last option for creating a
cylinder.
This time it's a 3D composition.
Classic 3D is used here. And it looks like a
real cylinder in Cinema 4D mode.
But actually it's just an imitation and it consists
of multiple layers.
These are just ordinary circles placed at equal
distance from each other. There are just so many
of them that they emerge into a solid figure.
This is where the drawbacks lie.
If it's rotated at a certain angle, no matter how
dense the layers are.
You will notice a distortion. So this angle should always
be avoided.
This layers can be placed manually or automatically
using Expressions. Thanks to the use of
Expressions. We have moved some parameters to the
composition layer itself.
These include the cylinder hate layer position and
color settings.
Since these are since this is a 3D object. We can
also control its shape using the layer scale at the
same time because everything is inside the one
composition. It may be difficult adding more complex gradients to
different parts of the cylinder.
But since this is a regular classic 3D layer,
we can add Styles and effects to it.
The main thing that we can forget is that
in order to rotate this layer. We have to enable
collapse transformation. This means that
the effect will no longer move along with the layer
to make up for this you'll need to add special expressions.
As we did in the second version of the semisphere and that's
it.
These are all the options you can try to create each one
yourself or use the ready-made presets
for your animations, but you need to experiment and
think about how you can visually stylize the object using
the techniques. We already went through.
That's all for today. We covered a lot of topics while creating
all these shapes. You may need some time to
try them all out and find the strength and weaknesses of
which Approach at the same time. You can
also figure out your optimal way of stylizing each
object. Even though 3D is not the
main use for After Effects. It can give us good opportunities. It
can give us good opportunities to experiment with
different layer Styles and animation
tools moving forward. We'll learn even
more complexity interesting techniques through exercises
focusing not only in motion, but also
on how to combine all of this approach into more
intricate and advanced animations